Welcome to Networking In-Debt session.
My name is Anil Vempati.
I'm the manager of
CoreOS networking team.
So in this session we will be covering
a few networking topics in depth.
The first of the topics is IPv6.
So you'll get to hear IPv6 in a nutshell
and the things you need to know as
developers and what is happening
with IPv6 and also some of the recent
improvements in iOS 5 and OS X Lion.
Then we'll go over some
changes under the hood.
And by this we mean is that networking
APIs themselves haven't changed,
but a lot of underlying
functionality has.
So we want to give you a preview of
what to expect with iOS 5 and Lion.
So if you see any different behavior,
you can understand it
and deal with it better.
Also, iOS 4 introduced multitasking.
What that means is if your app
has a network connection open and
the user switches to another app,
then what happens to the
connection that was open?
What are the things you may need
to do after your app gets resumed?
These topics will be covered in the
backgrounded connections section,
a part of it.
Then we have a couple
of interesting tools,
one for simulating more realistic
network conditions so you can test
your apps in realistic conditions
before they're ready for prime time.
And then we have a second app,
a second tool for troubleshooting
network connections.
So these are the topics that
will be covered in this session.
So to get started,
I'm going to hand it over to my colleague
James Woodyatt to take you through IPv6.
Thank you.
My name is James Woodyatt.
I'm an internet protocol
droid in CoreOS Networking.
And I'm here to talk about IPv6.
And when I'm done in about 15 minutes,
hopefully,
you will all know why there has never
been a better time than right now
to get your apps to be IPv6 ready.
I'm also going to,
in case you haven't been paying
attention to IPv6 until it was
clear that it was time to move,
I'm going to give you the basic
outline of what IPv6 is so that
you're ready to get started.
And finally I'm going to wrap up
by telling you what's in iOS 5 and
Mac OS X Lion to make it so that when
you transition to IPv6 it will all
be very seamless and ordinary users
will never need to know about it.
I imagine most of you, for most of you,
the only thing you really know
about IPv6 is that it doesn't
have 32-bit addresses like IPv4.
But there's a lot more than that.
And the reason we have to
move to IPv6 is that when we
first built out the internet,
we didn't think it was going to last
until 2011 with 32-bit addresses.
Anybody here ever tried to light
up IPv6 on their home network?
Wow, look at all those hands.
Worked great, didn't it?
You got to see the dancing turtle,
and then after that you went,
"Is that it?"
Things are happening now.
As you may have noticed,
today is IPv6 day.
And what that means
Oh come on, I didn't work that hard.
What that means is that all the
major content providers that you know
like Google and Bing and Facebook,
Yahoo, CNN,
a whole bunch of them all turned up
production ready IPv6 service on their
front pages for 24 straight hours.
Now why would they do this?
The reason they need to do this is that
They need to figure out how to get
their services over IPv6 instead
of what the service providers,
many of them who are resisting IPv6,
would rather they do,
which is cope with the fact that service
providers are going to start aggregating
subscribers behind carrier grade
NAT and then telling content providers,
perhaps you should think about locating
your plex inside our address realm.
And they're saying, well,
we'd rather actually get to IPv6 first.
This is making the service
providers in turn have to move to
bring up dual stack IPv6 service.
So if you've been following the news,
you may have noticed that
Comcast is trialing IPv6 dual
stack networks in Colorado.
And earlier this week they announced
that they were going to be expanding
their trial to San Francisco,
Philadelphia, Chicago, and Miramar,
Florida.
And also you may have noticed that
Verizon today will happily sell you a
3G wireless card for your MacBook Pro.
And then you can get IPv6 native
service directly over that on Mac.
That's a useful addition.
And as I have seen when I've been
participating with Apple in various
interoperability events with the airport
base station and seeing the various home
gateways come through to these tests,
I can see that...
All of the major equipment vendors
are adopting IPv6 capabilities
so that they will be ready too.
So with the service providers being
pulled by the content providers and
being pushed by the equipment vendors,
IPv6 is happening now and it's
time to get your apps ready.
So if you need to know about
IPv6 because you've been waiting
for everybody else to move,
and now they have,
let me give you a brief introduction
so that when you're looking at
making your apps IPv6 ready,
you will know what you need to know
about the protocol to make it happen.
So IPv6 is a lot like the
original internet protocol.
It still has the same
basic BSD sockets API.
You still open sockets, bind, listen,
connect, send, receive, shut down.
All of those are the same,
but the socket address structures
are a little different because
they have bigger addresses in them.
And the socket options that
you use for controlling fields
that are in the headers,
they all change a little bit too.
But there are some important new things.
Remember in IPv4 there was
these addresses that looked like
10.0.foo.bar.desk and 192.168.
Well,
there's no equivalent of that in IPv6.
The addresses are much larger.
There's a universal routing realm.
This means that if you have a
routable address on your host,
that routable address is globally unique.
You don't have to ask the network
what address somebody else on
the network should send to you.
It's attached to your interfaces.
And this has a couple of
interesting follow-on consequences
that I'll get into later.
Also, there's an all-new internet
control message protocol that
replaces the one that's in IPv4.
And there's a bunch of features
to that that I'll also talk about.
I don't know if you saw
that on another slide.
But first I want to go back and talk
about the address structures because,
let's face it,
the new addresses are kind of confusing.
So they're a lot easier to understand
if you know a few basic things.
There's a hierarchical allocation model.
And the scopes are well defined.
So in IPv4 the number space is sort
of allocated by the IANA and then
the regional registries and you get
a subnet and you can split it up
any way you want and when you're
looking at an IPv4 address it's hard
to tell which parts of it are what.
Well with IPv6 that's a
lot more standardized.
And also part of that standardization
is that the scopes are really
well defined by the standard.
So there's,
and I'll talk about that in a little bit.
But first I want to tell you about
the hierarchical allocation model.
Here's an IPv4 address.
It's 32 bits.
It's pretty flat.
There's not much you
know about what's in it.
But an IPv6 address is A, a lot larger,
and B, it's really split into two parts.
And this is important to know.
On the most significant bits
are the network identifier,
and the least significant bits, 64 bits,
are reserved for your subnet mask.
And hosts usually pick these addresses
by any of several mechanisms.
They can be derived
from your Mac address.
They can be manually configured.
They can be assigned by a DHCP server.
They can be randomly generated.
But the network IDs are allocated
by the Internet Number Authority.
Smaller blocks are carved
out by the registries.
Registries gives even smaller
blocks to service providers.
And then service providers give
every subscriber a prefix that
allows them to select usually
some large number of subnets.
And then each subnet
has 64 bits of host ID.
So if you're looking at one of
these big scary IPv6 addresses
that's made out of hexadecimal
numbers and separated with colons,
it's easy to figure out
what's going on here.
There's a prefix that comes
from your service provider,
or you get it directly from the registry.
Here's your subnet ID that as a
subscriber you got to pick that.
And then the rest of this,
the number that I'm showing you here
is a randomly generated one that I took
off my desktop machine in Cupertino.
And it's easy to figure out.
Going on further to talking
about well-defined scopes,
IPv6 has two scopes of unicast addresses.
It's got link local scopes.
In IPv4 those are 169.254.16,
but in IPv6 they are the FE80 prefix.
And what I'm showing you here is,
A way that a TCP server that's
listening on an IPv6 socket might
initialize its socket address
structure before it calls bind.
You can see that there's the SYN6
adder field where you put in your
host address if you're going to bind
to a specific interface address.
There's your port number.
And then there's this third field
in the socket address structure.
This is important for
link local addresses.
This is where you tell
the socket address,
"This address is for this interface."
Because the scope of a link local address
is just the link that it's connected to.
Routable addresses, on the other hand,
do come in a number of
interesting flavors and it's
worth knowing what they are.
First there's the
publicly routed addresses.
And then there's the
unique local addresses,
which are still global in scope,
but they're not routed over the
default free zone in the internet.
They can be routed over
bilateral agreements.
And you'll also sometimes see them
in Back to My Mac tunnel interfaces.
Because Back to My Mac uses
IPv6 inside the tunnel,
and we use unique local addresses
to address every host that's part
of a Back to My Mac routing domain.
And lastly, you may also see some global
scope addresses that are
associated with the transition
from IPv4 to dual stack IPv4/IPv6.
And these include things like NAT64,
protocol translation
between the two protocols,
v4 mapped addresses,
which appear only on hosts,
and the 6-to-4 and Teredo addresses.
Lastly, there's a whole can of worms
associated with multicast,
but it's not really that bad.
And I'm going to have to ask
you to look that up on your own
time and consider it homework,
but it's worth knowing about.
Multicast is much more
well-defined in IPv6.
The new control message protocol.
In IPv4, you have the address resolution
protocol and a whole different protocol
that you use over PPP links for
configuring hosts with their addresses.
But in IPv6, this all gets unified on the
ICMPv6 protocol in a profile
called Neighbor Discovery.
On routed interfaces,
IPv6 addresses can be assigned by hosts
themselves using router discovery,
but DHCP is an option.
Some networks will require
DHCP for every host.
Some networks won't offer DHCP at all.
And some networks will offer DHCP in
certain scale or stateless varieties
or stateful for only those hosts that
require individual configuration.
But every host can usually
find out about its,
well, every host has to be able to
find out about its routers
through router discovery.
And finally,
IPv6 has another interesting feature
which is that IPv4 fragments packets
at routers before they get forwarded,
but IPv6 routers are not
allowed to fragment packets.
If a router gets a packet that
it can't forward because the
next link has a smaller MTU,
it has to send back an ICMPv6
error message that says,
"This packet is too big."
Fragment at the host.
And that means that firewalls have
to honor these ICMPv6 error messages,
but the good news is that hosts
get path MTU discovery for all
of the transport layer protocols,
not just TCP.
And it's standard.
You can rely on it.
It needs to be there or IPv6 is broken.
So developers have a few things that
they need to be aware of about IPv6 that
make it a little different from IPv4.
Because there's a
universal routing realm,
the network address translator from
IPv4 that might be hiding your address
and giving you a certain amount
of privacy because your address
is obscured from the global internet,
well, your address is now global.
And there's a different
mechanism for protecting your
privacy based on your address,
and that means that your hosts
may get renumbered more often.
This has much better support
for automatic renumbering,
but just be aware that your application
may be sitting on a host that gets its
addresses renumbered more frequently.
Also,
it's pretty normal for an IPv6 host to
have multiple addresses per interface,
and even multiple addresses per prefix.
Routers might advertise
more than one prefix,
and your host may have more than
one address for each prefix.
So if you've got an app that
iterates... ...through the
list of interface addresses,
be aware you're going to
see a lot of addresses,
and they'll be of different types.
I'll go into that in a
little more detail later.
And lastly, with IPv4,
you kind of have to deal
with NAT traversal a lot,
and you might think that with IPv6 you
don't have to deal with NAT traversal.
But sadly, that's not quite true.
As long as we've still got
IPv4 in the real world,
and we're going to have
that for a long time,
there are going to be these
NAT64 protocol translators.
And also, we've got proxies.
And firewalls,
and all of the usual things that
can interfere with reachability by
filtering the content of the network,
even if they don't do protocol
translation just to route.
put this slide here in my
presentation because I wanted to
take a brief break to recognize that
In order to maintain this
illusion that the internet is
magic and that it just works,
we have to really concentrate
on the technology without really
thinking too hard about all of the
public relations associated with it.
So it's important to not get
distracted by what you might
read in the press about IPv6.
Remember that the transition is
really happening and the people
inside this room right now are the
ones that need to know about it.
So keep an eye out for that.
And if you want to go into
more detail about IPv6,
I'm going to go into a little
bit more detail about it.
Everybody else outside this room is
probably going to be better off if they
never know that IPv6 is happening at all.
So keep an eye on -- your job is to
pay attention to the reality and the
engineering problems of getting the
transition to happen smoothly so that
people outside who are just using your
app don't have to care about whether
they're using IPv4 or IPv6 or whatever.
So now I'm going to tell you
about what we've got in iOS and in
Mac OS X to make it possible for you
to do it so that it looks like magic.
First I'm going to start by telling
you a bit about where IPv6 has been.
It showed up in iOS in 3.2
when the iPad launched,
but it's been in
Mac OS X since the beginning.
In iOS,
IPv6 is just not visible in settings.
That doesn't mean it isn't there though.
iOS devices will happily get
addresses and use the IPv6 internet.
There's IPv6 on the
conference network here today.
Your phones can surf to IPv6 websites.
Try out ipv6.me if you don't believe me.
But the settings don't show you
anything about your IPv6 addresses.
If you'd like to find that information,
there's probably great third
party apps in the app store
that should do that for you.
In iOS 4.1 we improved it a bit so that
you can get your DNS server addresses.
Over the router
advertisements using RFC 5006,
we also added a stateless DHPv6
client for networks that might
be operating in a v6 only mode.
iOS 4.3 added support for a stateful
DHCPv6 client and temporary addresses.
The temporary addresses are the way
you get a certain amount of privacy
in IPv6 that NAT provides you in IPv4.
We randomly generate the host ID part
of your address and add it to the
network prefix that you're attached to.
And we rotate those once a day and stop
using them after a week so that when
you move from one network to another,
you'll have an address that isn't
based on your hardware ID and you can't
be tracked from hotspot to hotspot.
Now, in iOS 5 and 10.7 we have
some improvements that I'd
like to tell you about.
First,
we are routinely testing development
builds of the operating system
against the Tahi conformance suite,
which is used for the IPv6
ready logo certification.
And we've also taken great pains
to make sure that all the apps
that ship with iOS 5 and with
Lion are as IPv6 ready as possible,
so we're tracking all of that.
We also run them on networks that
are v6 only with a NAT64 translator.
We've also improved the way
the system chooses destination
addresses and source addresses
for when they make a connection.
We use the RFC 3484 default policy table
as amended by recent internet drafts.
And this helps if you're using,
if you're coding directly to the
POSIX API and using get adder info.
This will definitely help make
the transition more seamless.
My colleague Josh Graessley is going
to come after me and tell you about
the great new feature that is in the
core foundation layers in CF socket
stream where we will actually
make concurrent TCP connections
after making concurrent DNS lookups
and we use the best connection
available as quickly as possible.
So no more waiting for IPv6
to fail or IPv4 to fail before
falling back to the other protocol.
And we improved the sockets API to
conform to the latest RFC from the IETF,
RFC 3542.
And I'll have some more
detail about that in a minute.
and the temporary addresses
that I told you about in iOS 5,
they're coming to Lion,
so look for them there.
The new Sockets API has a
couple of interesting things
that you need to know about.
It's not source code
compatible with the older one.
So if you've got an app that
actually wants to use the special
socket options that allow you to
control the contents of the IPv6
headers and the extension headers,
some of those options have
semantics that are different.
They have the same names,
but they work differently.
Which means you may have to decorate
your source code with pound-defined
messages that say which one of
these two APIs you're going to use.
Because the kernel supports both,
it's got binary compatibility for this.
So you have to choose in your source
code which one you're really using.
And if you don't,
then the compiler will probably
complain about undefined symbols.
If you still want to use the older API,
same thing,
you've got to put in the decoration.
Also, with these privacy addresses,
you might be thinking to yourself,
but I actually want to
make an outbound flow,
an outbound connection,
using my persistent address
rather than my temporary address.
How do I do that?
Well,
there's a non-standard socket option we
introduced that allows you to override
for each socket when you do the bind,
saying, I would like to prefer
the persistent address.
It's also important to note
that if you're iterating the
list of interface addresses,
that there's a flags field in the
structures returned by that function.
And on IPv6 addresses,
those flags are actually going
to tell you useful things.
You'll know which ones are
your temporary addresses.
You'll also be able to tell which
ones are tentative or deprecated,
which are flags that come up when
automatic renumbering happens
and duplicate address detection.
So, if there is two things I want you
to do after you leave here today,
one of them is really go try to
light up your home network with IPv6.
It's good for developers to be early
adopters of this stuff and one of
the best ways to do that is get an
airport base station or a time capsule
and go get yourself a free account
with tunnelbroker.net or 6access.net
and configure your base station to
terminate an IPv6 over IPv4 tunnel
and get yourself up and running.
And the next thing I want you to do
is if you've got any IPv4 only apps
or apps that do networking and you
haven't tested them on a v6 network,
please get ready for IPv6.
It's coming to a network
near you and if you don't,
your competitors will.
Three things I want you to remember,
transition is happening.
Please understand that most of your
users don't care about IPv6 versus IPv4,
they don't want to know,
don't let them know.
And if you can use the high level
APIs that we provided that sort all
of this out for you automatically,
then absolutely do so.
And for that I want to hand
over the clicker to my colleague
Josh Grassley who will tell you all
about what's coming in those higher
level APIs that are so great.
Thanks.
Good morning.
My name is Josh Graessley,
and I'm going to tell you about some of
the really cool things we've been doing
under the covers to make networking
work a lot better in iOS 5 and in Lion.
So most of this work is all done
down at the Unix-y Darwin Foundation.
You don't have to make any
changes if you're currently
programming to the CF Networking
Layer APIs or the Foundation APIs.
You'll get to take advantage
of all of this for free.
So we've got a number of changes.
We've changed the way that
we do address selection,
both source address selection and
destination address selection.
We've changed the way that
we handle Connect by Name.
We've made it a lot more advanced
in the event that we're using an
API that lets you connect by name.
We've added statistics for the network
so we can get a better idea about how
the network is performing and we can
make better decisions about whether
we should be using IPv4 or IPv6.
With iCloud we have a lot
of extra background traffic
that might be going on.
So we've done a lot of work
to introduce some throttling
to make sure that whatever may
be going on in the background,
whether it's your application while it's
in the background or iCloud traffic,
that stuff is throttled so the foreground
application remains responsive.
We've also added some
new TCP buffer sizing,
which has some implications if
you're working at the sockets layer.
Most of these changes were made
to handle the dynamic environment
that we find our devices in.
We have devices that may be on multiple
very different networks at the same time,
cellular and Wi-Fi.
We have a bunch of different kinds
of networks that we can run into.
We've got networks that have very
fast and very good IPv4 connectivity,
and networks that may not have
such great IPv6 connectivity.
For example, they may have IPv6,
but it may be provided by a tunnel,
and so v6 may be a little bit slower.
There are other edge cases
that we find that we run into.
Sometimes there are networks that
have a device on the network that say,
"Hey, I've got v6 connectivity.
"Here's a prefix.
"I'm the router.
"Go ahead and send me traffic."
And they don't actually have any way
to get that traffic anywhere else,
and they don't even let you know, "Hey,
by the way, I wasn't able to deliver
that." So you're just stuck
waiting for things to time out.
Another thing that we've
seen problems with is DNS,
where we send out a query,
which is the way of looking up
an IPv6 record for a host name,
and we never get an answer back.
So we end up waiting for a timeout,
which is a waste of time.
Eventually we'll probably
have very fast IPv6 networks,
and maybe v6 only networks,
and v4 is only around as a legacy.
But in the meantime we're going
to have to handle moving between
different networks where v6 may
be better or v4 may be better,
and communicating with hosts
where a host may be on v4 and v6,
but we don't know whether
it's better to communicate
with that host using v4 or v6.
So we've done a lot of work to
try and dynamically adjust to
whatever environment we're in.
The first step was
improving address selection.
So we used the same
API at the lower layer,
get_enter_info.
Get_enter_info takes a host name,
so an application can tell the system,
hey, I want to know what all the
addresses are for this host name.
And get_enter_info will do a DNS query
for the v4 addresses and a separate
DNS query for the v6 addresses.
And when those queries come back,
get_enter_info will then sort
all of the addresses and try and
put the best address to use at
the very beginning of that list.
And it will return that
to the application.
And the application will usually pick one
of those addresses and try and connect.
The problem is if the first
address returned by get_enter_info
really isn't the best address,
then it may take up to a minute for
that connection attempt to time out.
And most users won't
wait around for a minute.
So we've changed the rules
on how we do the sorting.
Now we look into the routing
statistics and we try and figure
out about how long the round
trip time is to each destination.
And we'll go with the destination that
has the lowest round trip time estimate.
In the event that we
don't have any statistics,
we'll fall back to a very
sophisticated policy table,
which is based on an IETF draft,
RFC 3484.
Most applications don't really
want to connect to an address.
What they want to
connect to is a service,
and they identify the service by
specifying the host name of the
host that the service is running on,
as well as the port.
And they have to do this
in two different steps.
The first step involves
telling the operating system,
here's a host name,
please give me a list of addresses.
But it doesn't tell the operating
system what the application's
going to do with those addresses.
And the next step is a bit arduous.
It has to create a socket
of the right address family,
has to set options,
and then it has to do the connect.
And at those steps it
just tells the system,
I'm trying to connect to this address,
but it doesn't tell the system
what I'm really trying to do
is get connected to this host.
So we've got a better way.
Fortunately,
we have an API already on the system,
CF socket stream, that lets you specify
a host name and a port.
So it tells the system,
I want to connect to this
host name on this port,
and now the system can do
some very intelligent things.
So it's the same API as before,
CFSocketStream, and everything built on
top of CFSocketStream.
Almost every CF network API or
foundation layer networking API is
based on top of CFSocketStream.
there's some very new behavior.
So in the past we would use getAdderInfo
and it would do the v4 and the v6 queries
and it would wait until those came back
before it would give us any results.
Now we perform the separate v4
and v6 queries and as soon as we
get one of those answers back,
we'll take all the addresses in that
answer and we'll sort them and then we'll
pick the best destination from that.
And we'll start a connection.
And at the same time that we start
a connection to that best address,
we'll also look it up in the routing
statistics and figure out about
what the round trip time should be.
So we have an idea of how long
we should expect that connection
to take and we'll set up a timer.
So if that timer fires and the
connection hasn't been established,
we'll pick the next best address and
we'll start a connection to that as well.
So we'll have a bunch of concurrent
TCP connections potentially
going on at the same time.
We'll keep doing this until we
run out of addresses or we end up
with an established connection.
So to look at how this solves some
of the problems that we've run into,
we have a diagram up here.
Prior to Lion, in an environment where
we had broken v6 DNS,
where the DNS server wouldn't
respond to quad A queries,
we would have sent those v4 and v6
queries and we'd get the v4 answer back.
And then we'd wait around because
we didn't have the v6 answer yet.
And after some time out, we'd go, okay,
we didn't get a v6 answer,
let's go ahead and connect.
But now we've wasted a lot of time.
The user doesn't care if
they connect over v4 or v6.
So waiting around for that v6
answer really doesn't benefit them.
On Lion, we send the v4 and the
v6 answer -- the queries.
We get the v6 -- sorry, the
We connect to the v4 and we're done.
The user's experience is much improved.
It's even more dramatic when
we have a broken IPv6 network.
There are some networks out there,
like I said earlier,
where some device on the network says,
"I have v6 connectivity,
please use this prefix "and send all
the traffic to me." In that scenario,
prior to Lion, we would send the v4
and the v6 DNS queries.
We'd get the v4 and v6 DNS queries back,
and then we'd sort them.
We'd decide, okay,
let's connect to the IPv6 address.
So we send a send packet over IPv6,
and we don't get any answer back.
So we wait for a little time.
We send another send.
We wait a little bit longer,
send another send,
and we keep doing this.
So a minute later,
we might finally get a timeout that says,
"Okay, this isn't working out for us."
Then we fall back to the V4 address,
we send this in, we get the SYN act back,
we've got a connection,
we're ready to go.
But we've just wasted a whole minute.
And I don't know about you,
but I won't wait around for a minute.
And when you're loading web pages,
this is even worse because there
are multiple connections involved.
So that you have to wait a minute
for each one of those connections.
On Lion, we have much better behavior.
Send the V4 and V6 queries,
we get the answers back,
we sort the destinations, we decide,
okay, we're gonna try IPv6 first.
So we send the SYN,
we also set up a timer.
We send another SYN 'cause we
haven't got an answer back yet.
The timer fires,
indicating we expected that we
would have connected by now.
So we start a V4 connection as well,
while that V6 connection
is still going on.
We get our V4 answer back,
we've got a connection, we're all set.
The user doesn't even notice that
there's anything wrong on their network.
The application on their
phone or Mac responds,
works very quickly.
It's a much better user experience.
So to take advantage of this,
all you have to do is use an
API that lets you connect by name.
The other advantage of this too,
is because you're dealing with
host names instead of addresses,
you don't have to worry about
the difference between IPv4
addresses and IPv6 addresses.
The APIs available to you are CFSocket
Stream and anything built on top of that.
So there's WebKit, NSURL connection,
CFHTTP stream, and a lot of other APIs.
When you're trying to
pick which API to use,
it's really important to try and
pick the highest layer API available.
The higher the level of the API,
the more information your application
gets to convey to the operating system
about what it's really trying to do.
For example,
if you were trying to load some
HTTP URL and you decided to
do that with CFSocket stream,
you tell it, I want to connect to this
host name and port 80.
And then it would be up to you to
put together all of the HTTP headers
and parse all the responses and deal
with proxies and everything else.
If you move up to CFHTTP stream,
that would handle all of the
HTTP headers for you so you don't
have to do the parsing of that.
But it doesn't provide the
automatic proxy support.
So if you move up to an
even higher level API,
you can take advantage of the proxy
support built into the operating system
and it will handle everything for you.
In order to support
all these new features,
we've started collecting a lot more
statistics inside of the kernel.
So we keep track of
performance of TCP sockets,
of UDP sockets, as well as routes.
Currently the only clients for
this information are the Connect by
Name API and a new command
line tool online called NetTop.
NetTop actually started out as a debug
tool for us to diagnose what kind of
statistics we were collecting and making
sure that our statistics looked correct.
So I'm going to give you a quick
demo of NetTop running on Lion.
We found it was pretty useful,
so we ended up shipping
this tool with Lion.
So I'm going to run nettop-m.
There's a man page.
I know it's going to be
a little bit hard to see.
Unfortunately,
it takes up the whole screen.
But we can see--
and I will be talking about the process
and each of the sockets underneath it.
We have various
information like the state,
the packets, round trip times,
lots of great information for figuring
out what's going on in your network.
We can collapse it.
Scroll down to the end,
switch to delta mode and I can bring up
and Safari.
We can see all of this
loads in real time.
So here's our web process and all of
the connections we've got established.
You can see we actually connected
over V6 some of the time.
And then we can zoom in on San Francisco,
maybe?
Yeah.
and San Francisco.
And we can see that on various
sockets we're loading data as
we scroll around and zoom in.
So that's NetTop looking at sockets.
We also have a routing
mode where we can download
We can look at the whole running
table and all the statistics we've
been collecting on all the hosts.
So we can see here we've got,
and the default route,
along with all the different hosts we've
connected to over the default route,
we have information about all the
packets we've sent and bytes and we
have things like the round trip times,
we have statistics on how the default
route itself is performing as well as
some of the hosts that we're talking to.
So that's NetTop.
I encourage you to go check that out.
Oops.
So in addition to all
this network statistics,
we've added network throttling.
iOS 5 has a lot of cool features
like all the iCloud stuff.
But that can put a big
load on the network.
And we're very concerned that when
your networking application is running
in the foreground on the phone,
we want it to be as
responsive as possible.
So in the event that you do have
a networking application and
it's running in the foreground,
we'll go ahead and throttle all of
the background traffic so that your
application will remain responsive and
the users will have a good experience.
We also needed to make sure that
we didn't actually slow down the
background traffic too much because
if we cause the background traffic
to take a longer period of time,
then we have to keep the interfaces
powered up in a high power mode which
costs us electricity and the battery
runs down faster and that's not good.
So there are a few conditions under
which you will experience throttling.
First, it's only going to happen to
background applications and sockets,
as well as sockets for iOS services
that weren't initiated by the user.
And then it will only ever be
throttled if there is also a networking
application in the foreground on iOS.
So we used two different techniques
to handle this throttling.
For the transmit side,
we changed the way that we
adjust the congestion window.
Under normal operation,
the congestion window starts out small.
The congestion window controls
how quickly TCP sends.
TCP will start out with a
small congestion window,
which means send slowly,
and it'll slowly grow it.
So it'll basically send faster
and faster and faster until
there's some packet loss,
and then it'll back off,
and then it'll start
sending faster again.
And it does this to try and
find the best throughput given
the current network conditions.
In the event that we're throttling,
we'll do what we would normally
do where we grow the congestion
with it slowly so we start sending
faster and faster and faster.
But we're also going to watch the
round trip times because the round trip
times have the biggest effect on the
perceived responsiveness of the network.
So if those round trip
times start to go up,
we'll go ahead and slow down
even before we hit packet loss.
If we hit packet loss,
we'll also slow down.
But this should leave the network
with pretty low round trip times
so the foreground application will
have a very responsive experience.
On the receive side,
we adjust the receive window that
we advertise to the remote sender.
Normally the receive window is based
on the receive socket buffer size.
In the throttled case,
we will actually measure the inter-packet
delay variation and we will come up with
an estimate of the round trip time and
if the round trip time starts going up,
we will advertise a smaller
receive window so that the remote
side will have to send slower.
So if you have a background process,
you're going to go through
a few different phases.
When your process is first
switched out of the foreground and
goes into the background on iOS,
for a short period of time,
your application will be allowed
to perform some operations.
You get a chance to finish up your work.
Normally you'll be going full bore.
But if there is another application
that comes into the foreground and
that's a networking application,
then your sockets will become throttled.
So you may see slightly
diminished performance.
After that short period of time where
you're allowed to finish up your work,
your application may be suspended.
When it's suspended,
the sockets will be shut down and the
Bonjour records may be unregistered.
What this means is when your
application resumes again,
it's really important to
handle all the errors that
you might get on your sockets.
If you try and perform any operation
on one of these shut down sockets,
you get a bunch of errors.
You have to close the socket,
create a new socket, and connect again.
You may also need to
re-register Bonjour records.
There's a Bonjour session tomorrow that
will cover that in much more detail.
The last new feature in iOS 5
that we're going to go over is
TCP automatic socket buffer sizing.
So a TCP socket has two socket buffers.
There's a receive buffer
and a send buffer.
And normally these are set
to fairly hard-coded values.
But the buffers need to be large
enough to handle a network that has
high latency but very high throughput,
but we don't want to make them
too large or we end up potentially
wasting a lot of kernel resources.
So we've added code in iOS 5 to
automatically resize the buffer based
on the current round trip times and the
current throughput that we're seeing.
This does require TCP timestamps
in order to work properly.
So if you're running a server that
your application talks to please make
sure that TCP timestamps are turned on.
Also, if you're interacting at the socket
layer with the socket and you're
currently setting the SO send buff
or SO receive buff socket options,
those socket options tell the system,
my send buffer or my receive
buffer should be this size.
And if you tell the system
to use a specific size,
the system will honor that request,
but it means the system can't
dynamically scale to whatever will
perform best on the current network.
So to wrap up, if you can,
use the highest level core foundation
or foundation networking API possible.
Convey as much information as
possible to the networking stack.
If you're already using these APIs,
chances are your application
already works with IPv6.
If you have a networking
application on iOS,
it's really important to remember
to add the UI requires persistent
Wi-Fi property in your info P list.
This tells the system don't disassociate
Wi-Fi after some period of time.
It also tells the system when your
application is in the foreground,
the background traffic
should be throttled.
There is a power cost to this, though,
so if you don't have a
networking application,
please don't set this.
Handle errors.
You're going to run into errors when
your application suspends and is resumed.
You're going to run into errors as
your application is running on a device
that moves from cellular Wi-Fi or Mac,
or MacBook that moves
from Ethernet to Wi-Fi.
Or even staying on the same network,
you can have an IPv6 network renumbering
event that can generate errors.
It's really important to handle
these errors in the best way possible
without getting the user involved
for a very seamless experience.
Finally, let the system pick the
socket buffer sizes.
The system will do a great job.
It knows more about what's
going on on the network than
your application's likely to.
So unless you absolutely need to,
please don't use those socket options.
And while I've got your attention,
I just wanted to remind you it's
really important not to do any blocking
network operations on the main thread.
The main thread is really important
for responding to the user quickly.
If you have some blocking operation and
it takes a while and the user is trying
to scroll or do anything else in the UI,
the UI is going to be unresponsive and
that's really not a good experience.
So to show you some of the tools
available to help diagnose problems,
I'd like to invite up Vincent Lubet.
Good morning.
So I'm going to present
a couple of tools,
as Anil said, that were developed by the
CoreOS Networking team,
and I hope you'll find them useful.
The first one is the
Network Link Conditioner.
So as its name implies,
it's a tool that you can
use on your Mac to emulate
some networking conditions.
So the idea is that when you
start developing your app,
you can, you know,
often you develop in the
comfort of your office.
Maybe you have a server on the
same LAN with gigabit connection.
Everything is fine.
So over gigabit link, you know,
it's very easy to do whatever.
And also it's very easy to make
mistakes that you're going to pay
when you bring your application and,
you know, get over Wi-Fi.
Or even 3G networks and things like that.
So we developed that tool so
that very early on when you
start to develop your code,
you can test, you know,
into various network conditions.
So that's the goal.
And so NLC, or Network Link Conditioner,
works for all application and, in fact,
services on the Mac.
And that also includes the simulator.
So it's also for... for you
iOS developers when you can...
Before you test your application
on the actual device,
which is very, very important,
this tool is not a substitute
to actual real-world testing,
but it's just a facility.
So what NLC can do?
So it acts on all the traffic that
comes in and out of your system,
the APV4 traffic.
It limits bandwidth,
so based on the actual throughput,
so it's going to, you can just set,
you know, I want 10 kilobits per second.
It can add delays to test with this
latency that's really a limiting
factor for most applications.
You can add packet loss.
Sometimes it's interesting,
we found interesting to
add some delays to DNS.
And there are some side effects
with that that may come.
And you can specify different
settings for uplink and downlink.
You can simulate asynchronous
links like DSL or things like that.
And you can create your own
configuration and that's something
I'm going to show you in a while.
So the networking conditioner sits,
you know, somewhere.
It's a filter at the IP level
in the networking stack.
And it really affects all the
traffic that goes in and out
of your networking interface.
So to use that, we have a preference
panel that you set up.
You turn it on.
And you can change some settings.
And so when you turn it on,
it's going to affect all the application,
all the traffic going in and
out of the apps of your system.
And that's what I'm going to show you.
I'm going to switch to the demo machine.
So to demonstrate that,
I'm going to-- we wrote--
A little Cocoa application.
So please,
this is just a demo application.
We are not UI.
We are not Cocoa developers.
We are more network guys.
So this didn't go through any review.
But it's just to show you
what can happen in some case.
So we have a little text field.
And I'm running locally a web server.
I can show you in the sharing panel.
I'm running just a web sharing here.
So, and it's this demo,
it's going to download that JPEG,
it's a 3 megabit, or 3 megabyte file,
sorry.
And when you load it, it's very fast.
And here, maybe you see at the bottom,
the tab,
it's making a blocking operation,
but it's very fast, you know.
We're doing the blocking, download,
and SEL connection on the main thread,
something that you shouldn't do.
But, you know, on a fast network,
it works pretty well.
Now,
if I bring the Network Link Conditioner,
And just enter my password.
We have this little panel and that
has some settings called profile.
So we have a number,
as you can see on the
On your left,
a number of preset profiles with some
This is something that is kind
of average representation of
different conditions for 3G,
Wi-Fi, DSL, Edge.
And here at the bottom
I created a custom one,
a custom that just adds delay.
And it's going to add
delay to all the traffic,
whether it's on the loopback
interface or Ethernet or anything.
So I'm just adding 100 milliseconds
delay for each direction.
But because the packets, you know,
it's going to travel, you know,
a request response is going to
take 400 milliseconds total time.
Because it's going in, out, and back.
So now if I go back, clear the --
The screen,
I have a little toggle button here that
can show that the UI is responsive.
And now when I have
just adding that delay,
a local connection is going
to take a lot of time.
And the UI is not responsive.
I cannot type.
And I just have to wait about 10
seconds for the download to complete.
If it's a non-blocking case,
we have the other tab.
I can do the same with the same
400 milliseconds round trip time.
It's going to take about the same time,
but while I'm here,
the UI is still responsive.
I can bring in the keyboard.
The UI is still responsive.
So that's kind of really
the point that Josh made.
Never, never make blocking
operation in the main thread.
Because latency that you just
added is going to kill performance.
So with that,
the summary for Networking Conditioner,
it's a tool, it's just a facility to
help you really develop your
application and your networking,
the logic of your network from the start.
This is not a substitute
for real-life testing,
so also go out and test your
application in various conditions.
But also, the idea also is that we like
to encourage you to be mindful
of best networking practice.
Do not block on the main thread.
Large I/O,
so if you're doing bulk data transfer,
do not read and write
bytes one at a time.
Even if it's sometimes it's
easier to parse some traffic,
do please use several K, 20,
30 K usually is good
for bulk data transfer.
And something that's very,
very important, if you have a request
response kind of protocol,
try as much as you can to overlap
the request and the response.
Do not wait for a reply to come
before sending the next request.
Thanks.
So because the latency is
going to add up and really,
really bring a lot of delays.
And it's always better
to try to fill the pipe.
TCP is going to behave much better
if data is flowing than if it needs
to restart for this transaction.
So that was the networking condition now.
So now I'm going to present
something called the,
thank you.
Another tool which we
more for iOS developers.
So it's new in iOS 5 and also
it comes with the iOS 5 SDK.
And it's simply a tool to,
that enables you to capture traffic
that go in and out of your iOS device.
It's not possible to run something like
TCP or Wireshark on an iPhone or an iPad,
but with the help of a Mac you can now,
you can with iOS 5, you can see what's
going on on your device.
And sometimes it's very useful to
try to debug or diagnose what's
going on with your application.
And how it works is that it creates,
there's a little tool that you run
on your Mac that's going to create a
network interface to represent your
iOS device that's attached by USB.
And with that,
because it's a networking interface,
it will work with anything that
uses BPF or lead pickup on your Mac.
So you can run TCP dump,
Wireshark or any other
tools that uses BPF.
So what you need,
so you need an iOS device,
you have a Mac and a Mac and also
USB cable that you need to plug.
I didn't have time to show the plug,
but the USB cable should be plugged
to the iOS device and the Mac.
And with that, I'm going to...
Before going, it's relatively simple.
There's a few steps to go through.
We have a command and tool on the
Mac that's called RVI control.
RVI stands for Remote Virtual Interface.
And you can start and you pass the
UDID of your iOS device that you can get,
for example, in the Xcode organizer.
And then after you can look what's,
you know, the network,
this virtual network interface that
has been created with IFconfig.
So you type IFconfig,
you will see something called RVI,
you know, and the number.
You can attach more than one iOS device.
That's why the name is not fixed.
And after you can run
TCP dump or Wireshark.
I'm going to show TCP dump.
So you can run TCP dump.
That's something we ship.
And you pass the name of that interface.
When you're done,
you can simply pass the minus
X option to RVI control and it's
going to remove the virtual interface.
and call back Anil to give
a summary of the session.
To summarize the session then,
you heard about IPv6,
that IPv6 transition is underway.
So please test your apps with IPv6
if you're not doing it already.
There's a good chance they will
be used in an IPv6-only network or
with IPv4 and v6 on the network.
So you want your apps to work
great in that environment.
Changes under the hood.
You saw the connect
by name functionality.
It's great.
Take advantage of it by writing to the
highest layer API possible so we can get
as much information as possible and use
it to give great experience for your app.
NetTop is a great tool that's online.
It can give you a preview of
what the networking stack sees.
So again, take advantage of that.
And background connections,
now you know how they work.
So be prepared to clean
up and reestablish your
connections after resuming.
And also the socket buffer resizing.
The system tries to do the smartest thing
possible for the network environment.
So that's a great takeaway.
Don't set the socket buffer sizes
unless you really have to and you think
that's the right thing for that network.
And the two tools that you heard about,
Network Link Conditioner,
please use it early and often
during development cycle.
Not a substitute for real-world testing,
but before your app is
ready for the real spin,
taking it for a real spin,
you can see how it might perform
in a lossy Wi-Fi environment
or a 3G DSL and so forth,
which is where your apps
will be run by the users.
So this is an early development tool
for simulating realistic conditions.
And then Remote Packet Capture,
as you just saw,
it can give you an idea of what
the packets that are flowing
in and out of the iOS device.
Here's more information
about networking in general.
These slides will be available shortly,
so you don't have to
write any of this down.
But this information is there.
The related sessions,
there was one yesterday which went
over the networking key principles.
There's another one tomorrow on Bonjour,
same place, same room.
And with that,
thank you very much for your time.